Add Kafka operator docs (2.1.1) (#3972)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Kafka
title: Kafka
menuWeight: 5
excerpt: Deploying Kafka in a project
---

## Getting started

<!-- TODO: Fix ZooKeeper operator link - this relies on the zookeeper docs being available in order to pass pre-commit -->
To get started with creating and managing a Kafka Cluster in a project, you first need to deploy the [Kafka operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/kafka-operator/) and the [ZooKeeper operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/) in the workspace where the project exists.

> After you deploy the Kafka operator, create Kafka Clusters by applying a `KafkaCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace. Refer to the [Kafka operator repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/config/samples) for examples of the custom resources and their configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying the Kafka operator, create Kafka Clusters by applying a `KafkaCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace. Refer to the [Kafka operator repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/config/samples) for examples of the custom resources and their configurations.
```

## Example deployment

> This example deployment walks you through first deploying a ZooKeeper cluster and then a Kafka cluster in a project namespace. After following the steps below, you should have a running ZooKeeper cluster and Kafka cluster ready for use in your project's namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example deployment walks you through first deploying a ZooKeeper cluster and then a Kafka cluster in a project namespace. The result of this procedure is a running ZooKeeper cluster and Kafka cluster ready for use in your project's namespace.
```

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: zookeeper.pravega.io/v1beta1
    kind: ZookeeperCluster
    metadata:
      name: zookeeper
      namespace: ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      replicas: 1
    EOF
    ```

1.  Check the status of your ZooKeeper cluster using `kubectl`:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE} get zookeeper
    ```

1.  Download the [sample Kafka Cluster](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/banzaicloud/koperator/master/config/samples/simplekafkacluster.yaml) file.

1.  Update the following attribute `zkAddresses`, replacing `zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181` with `zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181`. You can use `sed` to update the file:

    -   MacOS sed

        ```bash
        # If you are using sed that comes installed on macOS
        sed -i '' "s/zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181/zookeeper-client.${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}:2181/g" simplekafkacluster.yaml
        ```

    -   GNU sed

        ```bash
        # If you are using GNU sed
        sed -i "s/zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181/zookeeper-client.${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}:2181/g" simplekafkacluster.yaml
        ```

> 1.  The file should now contain the following line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Verify the file contains the following line:
```

    ```yaml
    ...
    zkAddresses:
        - “zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181”
    ...
    ```

1.  Apply the `KafkaCluster` to your project's namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE} -f simplekafkacluster.yaml
    ```

1.  Check the status of your Kafka cluster using `kubectl`:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE} get kafkaclusters 
    ```

With both the ZooKeeper cluster and Kafka cluster running in your project's namespace, refer to the [Kafka Operator documentation](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/test/) for information on how to test and verify they are working as expected in. When performing those steps, ensure you substitute: `zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181` anywhere that the zookeeper client address is mentioned.

## Deleting Kafka custom resources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Follow these steps to delete the Kafka custom resources.

```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Kafka
title: Kafka
menuWeight: 5
excerpt: Deploying Kafka in a project
---

## Getting Started

<!-- TODO: Fix ZooKeeper operator link - this relies on the zookeeper docs being available in order to pass pre-commit -->
To get started with creating and managing a Kafka Cluster in a project, you first need to deploy the [Kafka operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/kafka-operator/) and the [ZooKeeper operator](../../../../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/) in the workspace where the project exists.

> Once you have the Kafka operator deployed, you can create Kafka Clusters by applying a `KafkaCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace. You can find various examples of the custom resources and their configurations in the [Kafka operator repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/config/samples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you deploy the Kafka operator deployed, create Kafka Clusters by applying a `KafkaCluster` custom resource in a project's namespace. Refer to the the [Kafka operator repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/config/samples) for examples of the custom resources and their configurations.
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

> ## Example Deployment

Reviewer 2: Sentence case on headings

```suggestion
## Example deployment
```

Reviewer: Best practice is always to provide an introduction of the what/why variety, before a procedure, even when it's obvious. So something like "This example deployment provides you with xxx, and leaves you with yyy," A sentence or two is all we usually need.

Author: @msdolbey @Colin1841 fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

    metadata:
      name: zookeeper
      namespace: ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      replicas: 1
    EOF
    ```

1.  Download the [sample Kafka Cluster](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/banzaicloud/koperator/master/config/samples/simplekafkacluster.yaml) file.

1.  Update the following attribute `zkAddresses`, replacing `zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181` with `zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181`. You can use `sed` to update the file:

    -   MacOS sed

        ```bash
        # If you are using sed that comes installed on macOS
        sed -i '' "s/zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181/zookeeper-client.${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}:2181/g" simplekafkacluster.yaml
        ```

    -   GNU sed

        ```bash
        # If you are using GNU sed
        sed -i "s/zookeeper-client.zookeeper:2181/zookeeper-client.${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}:2181/g" simplekafkacluster.yaml
        ```

1.  The file should now contain the following line:

    ```yaml
    ...
    zkAddresses:
        - “zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181”
    ...
    ```

1.  Apply the `KafkaCluster` to your project's namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE} -f simplekafkacluster.yaml
    ```

> 1.  Now that you have both the ZooKeeper cluster and Kafka cluster running in your project's namespace, you can find information on how to test and verify they are working as expected in the [Kafka Operator documentation](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/test/)

Reviewer 3: This is great!   However, don't you have to modify that command in the example to change the --zookeeper parameter to:  `zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181`?   Maybe we could mention that here?

```suggestion
1.  Now that you have both the ZooKeeper cluster and Kafka cluster running in your project's namespace, you can find information on how to test and verify they are working as expected in the [Kafka Operator documentation](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/test/).  When performing those steps, make sure to substitute: `zookeeper-client.<project namespace>:2181` anywhere that the zookeeper client address is mentioned.   
```

Reviewer: For the "this procedure results in this..." kind of statements, lets remove the step heading and just go with straight text. We want to reserve numbered action items only for the steps a user takes.

Author: thanks @Colin1841!  @cneth this should be fixed now 🙏

> ## Deleting Kafka Custom Resources

Reviewer 2: Sentence case is all

```suggestion
## Deleting Kafka custom resources
```

Author: 💼 fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

1.  View all Kafka resources in the cluster:

    ```bash
    kubectl get kafkaclusters -A
    kubectl get kafkausers -A
    Kubectl get kafkatopics -A
    ```

> 1.  Deleting a `KafkaCluster` example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Delete a `KafkaCluster` example:
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

    ```bash
    kubectl -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE} delete kafkacluster <name of KafkaCluster>

>     ```

Reviewer 3: Same comment here as on the Zookeeper topic, would be good to have the resources section here to make it a little easier for folks.

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda
